#Configuration notes


## General Pi config

Most of our Pis are set up according to [this recipe](https://github.com/NUSTEM-UK/Pi_config), as a starting point.

## Pi Wifi access point

As of 2018-01-22, I'm going to try following [the official documentation for this](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/wireless/access-point.md).

(Working from the NUSTEM base install, which is fairly stock but with things like avahi installed, alongside Microsoft VS Code)

---

*Time passes...*

---

Oh, that was a disaster. I managed to nuke the device's internet routing before I'd configured Mosquitto (which was the whole point), then the access point daemon configuration didn't work anyway. Ugh.

Give it up, revert to the usual PiTop Ceed configured as Mosquitto host, and Airport access point doing its reliable thing.

(I think perhaps this failed because I was using a Pi2 + wifi dongle, rather than a 3. Maybe.)

## Pi Samba file sharing

[This guide](https://www.raspberrypi.org/magpi/samba-file-server/) looks reasonably up-to-date.

Meh, I need to find my notes from home. Also, this is a bit scrappy without changing the names of all the Pis individually.


## Visual Studio Code Python3 config

This got a *lot* easier recently: bring up the quick menu (⌘⇧P) `>Python: Select Interpreter`, and pick `/usr/local/bin/python3` (for brew-installed Python on a Mac). Boom. Done. Awesome. Running the current buffer now executes against Python3.


## VLC command-line on Mac OS X:

In .bash_profile:
    alias vlc='/Applications/VLC.app/Contents/MacOS/VLC'

pass `-I rc ` to suppress GUI.

vlc -I rc -vvv rtsp://192.168.0.31:8554/stream --sout='#transcode{vcodec=mjpg,vb=2500,scale=auto,fps=15,acodec=none}:standard{access=http{mime="multipart/x-mixed-replace; boundary=7b3cc56e5f51db803f790dad720ed50a"},mux=mpjpeg,dst=:8089/videostream.cgi}'

vlc -I rc -vvv rtsp://192.168.0.31:8554/stream --sout='#transcode{vcodec=MJPG,vb=2500,scale=1,fps=15,acodec=none}:duplicate{dst=std{access=http{mime=multipart/x-mixed-replace; boundary=7b3cc56e5f51db803f790dad720ed50a},mux=mpjpeg,dst=:8080/mjpeg}}'

~/Desktop/VLC.app/Contents/MacOS/VLC -I rc -vvv rtsp://192.168.0.31:8554/stream --sout='#transcode{vcodec=MJPG,vb=2500,scale=1,fps=15,acodec=none}:duplicate{dst=std{access=http{mime=multipart/x-mixed-replace; boundary=7b3cc56e5f51db803f790dad720ed50a},mux=mpjpeg,dst=:8080/mjpeg}}'


## Streaming video

Ugh. This isn't working terribly well.

On Pi:
    raspivid -o - -t 0 -w 1023 -h 1024 -fps 15 -b 8000000 --nopreview | nc 192.681.0.3 5001
on Mac:
    nc -l 5001 | mplayer -fps 31 -cache 4096 -

...works rather well. Probably needs more cache to avoid dropped frames. Latency isn't bad. But only works for h.264 streams. Setting --codec MJPEG in raspivid options doesn't seem to work. In fact, basically nothing will read that. Ugh.

