# SkutterZero documentation

## Getting set up

Import the library into your Python sketch, and make yourself a new Skutter to talk to. Mine's named `boris`:

    from skutterzero import *
    boris = Skutter("D07")

The identifier (`D07`) is the designation printed on the Skutter module. You can now send your Skutter commands, for example, these commands will set full brightness, and a colour (hue) of `0`, which displays as red.

    boris.LEDbrightness(255)
    boris.LEDcolour(0)
## Servo commands

    skuttername.servo1speed(speed)
    skuttername.servo2speed(speed)

Where `speed` is between `0` and `180`. For continuous rotation (360°) servos, `90` will be a dead stop, with values either side ranging from slow to full speed in either direction.

For conventional (angular) servos, the value is the deflection angle, again between `0` and `180` degrees. If it makes more sense to you, you can also use:

    skuttername.servo1position(speed)
    skuttername.servo2position(speed)

## LED commands

These behave identically, and will set all connected LEDs to the hue you command, from `0` (red) through to `255` (also red):

    skuttername.LEDcolour(hue)
    skuttername.LEDhue(hue)

You've seen `setBrightness` above. The values range from `0` to `255`. Note that we're using the Hue/Saturation/Brightness colour model throughout, here, and Saturation is always set to maximum.
### LED gradients

**UNTESTED!!**

If your skutter has more than one LED attached, you can command either end of the strip and the skutter will paint a colour gradient between them. So:

    skuttername.LEDstartHue(hue)
    skuttername.LEDendHue(hue)

There aren't (yet) corresponding `LEDstartBrightness` or `LEDendBrightness` commands. Note that all gradients (and transitions) currently go the 'long' way around. So colour 20 to 230 should logically go 'over the top' of the colour wheel via 255/0, but it doesn't. This isn't ideal! 

## Animating things

You can command changes to happen over time, and let the skutter handle the details. The skutter will need to know where it starts (state `A`), where it finishes (state `B`), and details like how long it should take to get from `A` to `B` (`transitionTime`) and what to do when it gets there (`transitionType`).

    skuttername.transitionTime(seconds)
    # !!Possibly not working right now!!


For now, you have to set duration manually. It may be possible for the skutter to know the camera rotation angle, and hence for us to set `transitionTime` by 'number of degrees through which the camera turns.' How might you use that? Also note that at present, the transitionTime is the same for *everything*: both servos, the lights, all of it.

You can choose what happens when the animation reaches the end point (*this is slightly untested*):

    skuttername.transitionType("ONCE")   # transition from A to B, then stay at B.
    skuttername.transitionType("LOOP")   # transition from A to B, then repeat.
    skuttername.transitionType("RETURN") # transition from A to B, back to A, then repeat.

Setting `A` and `B` states can be achieved through:

    skuttername.servo1speedA(speed)
    skuttername.servo1speedB(speed)

    skuttername.servo2speedA(speed)
    skuttername.servo2speedB(speed)

    skuttername.LEDstartHueA(hue)
    skuttername.LEDstartHueB(hue)

<!-- 
The servo animation commands are also available as `.servo1positionA`, `.servo1positionB`, and so on. Use whichever makes most sense for your particular skutter.
    skuttername.LEDstartHueA(hue)
    skuttername.LEDstartHueB(hue)
    skuttername.LEDendHueA(hue)
    skuttername.LEDendHueB(hue)
 -->
